ARROW-13553: [Doc] Add guidelines for code reviews (#11757)
apache/arrow: docs/source/developers/reviewing.rst

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

=======================
Reviewing contributions
=======================

Principles
==========

Arrow is a foundational project that will need to evolve over many years

> or even decades, while serving potentially millions of users.  We believe

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or even decades, while serving potentially millions of users.  We believe that
```

being meticulous when reviewing brings greater rewards to the project than

> being lenient and aiming for quick merges.

Author: I'll add something to that tune, thanks.

Fixing potential issues after a Pull Request (PR) merge is more costly since
it forces the developer to context-switch back to work that was thought

> to be finished.  Moreover, an late-minute API change may propagate to

Reviewer 2: "last minute" is more idiomatic for me too

other parts of the project and require more attention than if done up front.

> And there are social issues with asking a volunteer to go back to work

Reviewer 3: I fully agree with this paragraph, but at the same time it can also be "demotivating" if a PR drags on for a very long time (although that can have many reasons of course, not necessarily due to the review). So maybe we could just says _something_ about that we still try to make contributing a rewarding process or something like that.

> And there are social issues with asking a volunteer to go back to work

Author: I am reworking back this part entirely based on @jonkeane's suggestion in another comment :-)

on something that was accepted as finished.

Guidelines
==========

Meta
----

> **Use your common sense**.  These guidelines are not hard rules.

Author: Would "use your own judgement" be better?

Committers are expected to have sufficient expertise on their work

> areas to be able to modulate concerns if necessary.

Reviewer: "modulate" isn't quite right here, but I'm not sure on the precise point intended so not sure what to suggest in its place, sorry

Author: Hmm... "calibrate" perhaps? "adjust"?

Reviewer: I think the bit where I'm confused is knowing what is being calibrated/adjusted, and who has concerns about what - "modulate concerns" doesn't quite work.

> These guidelines are not listed in a particular order.  They are
> not intended to be used as a checklist.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These guidelines are not listed in a particular order or not intended to be used as a checklist.
```

Finally, **these guidelines are not currently exhaustive**.

Public API design
-----------------

- Public APIs should nudge users towards the most desirable constructs.
  In other words, if there is a "best" way to do something, it should
  ideally also be the most easily discoverable and the most concise to type.
  For example, safe APIs should ideally be featured more prominently than

>   unsafe APIs that may crash or silently produce erronenous results on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  unsafe APIs that may crash or silently produce erroneous results on
```

  invalid input.

- Public APIs should ideally tend to produce readable code.  One example
  is when multiple options are expected to be added over time: it is better
  to try to organize options logically rather than juxtapose them all in
  a function's signature (see for example the CSV reading APIs in C++ and Python).

- Naming is important.  Try to ask yourself if code calling the new API
  would be understandable without having to read the API docs.
  Vague naming should be avoided; inaccurate naming is even worse as it
  can mislead the reader and lead to buggy user code.

- Be mindful of terminology.  Every project has (explicitly or tacitly) set
  conventions about how to name important concepts; steering away from those
  conventions increases the cognitive workload both for contributors and
  users of the project.  Conversely, reusing a well-known term for a different
  purpose than usual can also increase the cognitive workload and make

>   developers' life generally more difficult.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  developers' lives generally more difficult.
```

> - If it is unsure whether an API is the right one for the task at hand,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you are unsure whether an API is the right one for the task at hand,
```

  it is advisable to mark it experimental, such that users know that it
  may be changed over time, while contributors are less wary of bringing
  code-breaking improvements.  However, experimental APIs should not be
  used as an excuse for eschewing basic API design principles.

Robustness
----------

- Arrow is a set of open source libraries and will be used in a very wide
  array of contexts (including fiddling with deliberately artificial data
  at a Jupyter interpreter prompt).  If you are writing a public API, make
  sure that it won't crash or produce undefined behaviour on unusual (but
  valid) inputs.

> - When a non-trivial algorithm is implemented, defense-in-depth checks can

Author: You're right, that should be "defensive coding".

  should try to avoid crashing or produce silent bugs when invalid or
  corrupt data is fed to them.  This can require a lot of care that is
  out of the scope of regular code reviews (such as setting up fuzz testing
  - XXX link to current fuzz setup), but basic checks can still be suggested
  at the code review stage.

- When calling foreign APIs, especially system functions or APIs dealing with
  input / output, do check for errors and propagate them (if the language
  does not propagate errors automatically, such as C++).

Performance
-----------

- Think about performance, but do not obsess over it.  Algorithmic complexity
  is important if input size may be "large" (the meaning of large depends
  on the context: use your own expertise to decide!).  Micro-optimizations
  improving performance by 20% or more on performance-sensitive functionality
  may be useful as well; lesser micro-optimizations may not be worth the
  time spent on them, especially if they lead to more complicated code.

- If performance is important, measure it.  Do not satisfy yourself with
  guesses and intuitions (which may be founded on incorrect assumptions

>   about the compiler or the hardware).

Author: I need to add links, yes.

- Try to avoid trying to trick the compiler/interpreter/runtime by writing
  the code in a certain way, unless it's really important.  These tricks
  are generally dependent on platform details that may become obsolete,
  they are often brittle, and they can make code harder to maintain
  (a common question that can block contributors is "what should I do
  about this weird hack that my changes need to remove"?).

> - Avoiding worst-case degenerescence (such as memory blowups when a size

Author: It might be a term of art in French only, sorry :-(

> - Avoiding worst-case degenerescence (such as memory blowups when a size

Author: Perhaps "degradation" works?

> - Avoiding worst-case degenerescence (such as memory blowups when a size

Author: Or "catastrophic worst-case degradation"?

> - Avoiding worst-case degenerescence (such as memory blowups when a size

Reviewer 4: I like the second one, or perhaps just "Avoiding degenerate behavior…" in general

> - Avoiding worst-case degenerescence (such as memory blowups when a size

Author: Ah, "degenerate behaviour" sounds fine.

> - Avoiding worst-case degenerescence (such as memory blowups when a size

Author: I'll change to: "Avoiding rough edges or degenerate behaviour (such as memory blowups when a size estimate is inaccurately large)"

  estimate is too imprecise) may be more critical than trying to improve
  the common case by a small amount.

Documentation
-------------

These guidelines should ideally apply to both prose documentation and
in-code docstrings.

> - Look for ambiguous / sub-informative wording.  For example, "it is an error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Look for ambiguous / uninformative wording.  For example, "it is an error
```

Author: I'll use "poorly informative".

  if ..." is less informative than either "An error is raised if ... " or
  "Behaviour is undefined if ..." (the first phrasing doesn't tell the
  reader what actually *happens* on such an error).

> - Be mindful about spelling, grammar, expression, concision.  This may seem

Reviewer 5: Maybe 
```suggestion
- Be concise. Use correct spelling and grammar. 
```

  like an obvious concern, but not all people are not accustomed to care about

>   this.

Reviewer: Perhaps, instead of saying it's obvious but that not all people care about it, we could phrase it more positively, for example, saying that these things help smooth communication, or something like that?

Reviewer 5: Yes, possibly something like "Clear communication in a group with a range of linguistic and programming backgrounds enables more efficient collaborative development and maintenance."

Author: Hmm, how something like:
> People have varying degrees of adherence to these concerns, but they contribute to a better documentation.

Reviewer: What about if, instead of talking about when people don't do the thing we want them to do, we phrase it in terms of the result of them doing the thing we want them to do:

>  Clear communication is essential for effective collaboration with people from a wide range of backgrounds, and contributes to better documentation.

Author: Ok :-)

  if non-trivial parallelization is being added, or to validate a computational
  argument against a slow and straightforward reference implementation.

- A mitigating concern, however, is the overall cost of running the test
  suite.  Continuous Integration (CI) runtimes can be painfully long and
  we should be wary of increasing them too much.  Sometimes it is
  worthwhile to fine-tune testing parameters to balance the usefulness
  of tests against the cost of running them (especially where stress tests
  are involved, since they tend to imply execution over large datasets).

Social aspects
==============

* Reviewing is a communication between the contributor and the reviewer.
  Avoid letting questions or comments unanswered for too long ("too long"
  is of course very subjective, but two weeks can be a reasonable
  heuristic).  If you cannot allocate time soon, do say it explicitly.
  If you don't have the answer to a question, do say it explicitly.
  Saying "I don't have time immediately but I will come back later,
  feel free to ping if I seem to have forgotten" or "Sorry, I am out of depth
  here" is always better than saying nothing and letting the interlocutor

>   wondering.

Reviewer: I am going to admit, as someone whose first language is English, I thought it had negative connotations until I looked it up just now and found out it didn't - I think I mixed it up with "interloper"!

>   wondering.

Author: Ok, let's remove the interloper :-)

* If you know someone who may help on a blocking issue and past experience

>   suggests they can be available for that, feel free to add them to the

Reviewer 2: "available" here seems orthogonal to expertise shown through past experience. Should we phrase this about both expertise and that the ping is a way to assess availability?

Reviewer 2: I know I am frequently hesitant to `@` someone, but I should more frequently and they can say either "sorry I don't have time" or "oh this is the answer..."

Author: Hmm, who about:

"If you know someone who has the competence to help on a blocking issue and past experience suggests they may be willing to do so, feel free to add them to the discussion (for example by gently pinging their Github handle)."

  discussion (for example by cc'ing their Github handle).

* If the contributor has stopped giving feedback or updating their PR,
  perhaps they're not interested anymore, but perhaps also they're stuck
  on some issue and feel unable to push their contribution any further.
  Don't hesitate to ask ("I see this PR hasn't seen any updates recently,
  are you stuck on something? Do you need any help?").

* If the contribution is genuinely desirable and the contributor is not making
  any progress, it is also possible to take it up.  Out of politeness,
  it is however better to ask the contributor first.

* Some contributors are looking for a quick fix to a specific problem and
  don't want to spend too much time on it.  Others on the contrary are eager
  to learn and improve their contribution to make it conform to the
  project's standards.  The latter kind of contributors are especially
  valuable as they may become long-term contributors or even committers
  to the project; it can therefore be a good strategy to prioritize

>   interactions with such contributors.

Reviewer 4: I get the point here, but I worry this sounds a little exclusive; perhaps we can say instead that we should help people who are interested in getting further involved with the community to do so?

Author: Hmm, I may simply remove the last proposition ("it can therefore be a good strategy...").

* Some contributors may respond "I will fix it later, can we merge anyway?"

>   when a problem is pointed.  Unfortunately, whether the fix is really

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  when a problem is pointed out to them.  Unfortunately, whether the fix will really be
```

>   contributed soon in later PR is difficult to predict or enforce.  If

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  contributed soon in a later PR, is difficult to predict or enforce.  If
```

>   the contributor has shown to be trustable, it may be acceptable to do

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the contributor has previously demonstrated that they are reliable, it may be acceptable to do
```

>   as suggested.  Otherwise, it is better to decline the suggestion.

Reviewer 2: I wonder if framing this in terms of in-scope/out-of-scope decisions and follow-on Jiras. Something along the lines of: 

Our general policy is to not introduce regressions or merge PRs that require follow ons to function correctly (though exceptions to this can be made). What changes are in-scope for a PR and what changes might/could/should be pushed out of scope and have a Jira created should be determined in collaboration between the authors and the reviewers

Author: Ha, nice suggestion. I may even expand this a little.

* If a PR is generally ready for merge apart from trivial or uncontroversial
  concerns, the reviewer may decide to push changes themselves to the

>   PR instead of asking the contributor to make the changes.

Reviewer 2: Do we want a note about that same "it's best to ask for permission" or possibly we could frame this as "please don't take offense if this happens, it's common and is not intended to be a slight"

Author: I think the proposed phrase is out of scope for this document, as it's intended for reviewers not submitters.

Reviewer 6: No change needed but I just wanted to mention that I would probably suggest this document to newer submitter as well.  Much of the content here is helpful for understanding why the code is written the way it is.  It would also help with common questions new contributors might face (e.g. how much should I be testing my code?)

.. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
.. or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
.. distributed with this work for additional information
.. regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
.. to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
.. "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
.. with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

.. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
.. software distributed under the License is distributed on an
.. "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
.. KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
.. specific language governing permissions and limitations
.. under the License.

=======================
Reviewing contributions
=======================

Principles
==========

Arrow is a foundational project that will need to evolve over many years
or even decades, while serving potentially millions of users.  We believe
that being meticulous when reviewing brings greater rewards to the project
than being lenient and aiming for quick merges.

> Code review like this leads to better quality code, more people who are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code reviews like this leads to better quality code, more people who are
```

engaged with and understand the code being changed, and a generally

> healthier project with more room to grow and accomodate emerging needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
healthier project with more room to grow and accommodate emerging needs.
```

Guidelines
==========

Meta
----

**Use your own judgement**.  These guidelines are not hard rules.
Committers are expected to have sufficient expertise on their work
areas to be able to adjust their approach based on any concerns they have.

These guidelines are not listed in a particular order or not intended to be
used as a checklist.

> Finally, these guidelines are not currently exhaustive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, these guidelines are not exhaustive.
```
nit: can you ever have exhaustive guidelines on code reviews given, as mentioned above, the need for discretion?

Author: Of course :-D

Scope and completeness
----------------------

* Our general policy is to not introduce regressions or merge PRs that require
  follow-ons to function correctly (though exceptions to this can be made).
  Making necessary changes after a merge is more costly both for the
  contributor and the reviewer, but also for other developers who may be
  confused if they hit problems introduced by a merged PR.

* What changes are in-scope for a PR and what changes might/could/should be
  pushed out of scope and have a follow-up JIRA created should be determined
  in collaboration between the authors and the reviewers.

> * When a large functionality is being contributed and it seems desirable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* When a large piece of functionality is being contributed and it seems desirable
```

  about the compiler or the hardware).

  .. seealso:: :ref:`Benchmarking Arrow <benchmarks>`

* Try to avoid trying to trick the compiler/interpreter/runtime by writing
  the code in a certain way, unless it's really important.  These tricks
  are generally brittle and dependent on platform details that may become
  obsolete, and they can make code harder to maintain (a common question
  that can block contributors is "what should I do about this weird hack
  that my changes would like to remove"?).

* Avoiding rough edges or degenerate behaviour (such as memory blowups when
  a size estimate is inaccurately large) may be more important than trying to
  improve the common case by a small amount.

Documentation
-------------

These guidelines should ideally apply to both prose documentation and
in-code docstrings.

* Look for ambiguous / poorly informative wording.  For example, *"it is an
  error if ..."* is less informative than either *"An error is raised if ... "*
  or *"Behaviour is undefined if ..."* (the first phrasing doesn't tell the
  reader what actually *happens* on such an error).

* When reviewing documentation changes (or prose snippets, in general),

>   be mindful about spelling, grammar, expression, concision.  Clear

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  be mindful about spelling, grammar, expression, and concision.  Clear
```

  communication is essential for effective collaboration with people
  from a wide range of backgrounds, and contributes to better documentation.

* Some contributors do not have English as a native language (and perhaps
  neither do you).  It is advised to help them and/or ask for external help
  if needed.

* Cross-linking increases the global value of documentation.  Sphinx especially
  has great cross-linking capabilities (including topic references, glossary

>   terms, API references), be sure to make use of them!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  terms, API references), so be sure to make use of them!
```

  values, of course). Does a function allow different input types? etc.

* If some aspect of a functionality is delicate (either by definition or
  as an implementation detail), it should be tested.

* Corner cases should be exercised, especially in low-level implementation
  languages such as C++.  Examples: empty arrays, zero-chunk arrays, arrays
  with only nulls, etc.

* Stress tests can be useful, for example to uncover synchronizations bugs
  if non-trivial parallelization is being added, or to validate a computational
  argument against a slow and straightforward reference implementation.

* A mitigating concern, however, is the overall cost of running the test
  suite.  Continuous Integration (CI) runtimes can be painfully long and
  we should be wary of increasing them too much.  Sometimes it is
  worthwhile to fine-tune testing parameters to balance the usefulness
  of tests against the cost of running them (especially where stress tests
  are involved, since they tend to imply execution over large datasets).

Social aspects
==============

* Reviewing is a communication between the contributor and the reviewer.

>   Avoid letting questions or comments unanswered for too long ("too long"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Avoid letting questions or comments remain unanswered for too long ("too long"
```

  is of course very subjective, but two weeks can be a reasonable
  heuristic).  If you cannot allocate time soon, do say it explicitly.
  If you don't have the answer to a question, do say it explicitly.
  Saying *"I don't have time immediately but I will come back later,
  feel free to ping if I seem to have forgotten"* or *"Sorry, I am out of
  my depth here"* is always better than saying nothing and leaving the
  other person wondering.

* If you know someone who has the competence to help on a blocking issue
  and past experience suggests they may be willing to do so, feel free to
  add them to the discussion (for example by gently pinging their Github
  handle).

* If the contributor has stopped giving feedback or updating their PR,

>   perhaps they're not interested anymore, but perhaps also they're stuck

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  perhaps they're not interested any more, but perhaps also they're stuck
```
